# Extracted content
Source: subjects/Ggo/T3. Alineación de negocio y SI_TI. Bedell/Methodology_for_Business_Value_Analysis_of_Innovative_IT_in_a_Business_Sector._The_Case_of_the_Material_Supply_Chain.pdf

### Page 1
XXX-X-XXXX-XXXX-X/XX/$XX.00 ©20XX IEEE
Methodology for Business Value Analysis of
Innovative IT in a Business Sector. The Case of the
Material Supply Chain
Andrés Boza
Research Center on Production
Management and Engineering
Universitat Politècnica de València
Valencia, Spain
 aboza@cigip.upv.es
0000-0002-5429-0416
María del Mar Eva Alemany
Research Center on Production
Management and Engineering
Universitat Politècnica de València
Valencia, Spain
mareva@omp.upv.es
0000-0002-0992-8441
Ana Esteso
Research Center on Production
Management and Engineering
Universitat Politècnica de València
Valencia, Spain
aesteso@cigip.upv.es
0000-0003-0379-8786
Miguel A. Mateo-Casali
Research Center on Production
Management and Engineering
Universitat Politècnica de València
Valencia, Spain
mmateo@cigip.upv.es
0000-0001-5086-9378
Luca Canetta
University of Applied Sciences of
Southern Switzerland (SUPSI)
Lugano, Switzerland
luca.canetta@supsi.ch
0000-0002-3207-7470


Llanos Cuenca
Research Center on Production
Management and Engineering

Universitat Politècnica de València
Valencia, Spain
llcuenca@cigip.upv.es
0000-0003-3589-4182

Abstract — Identifying the business value of innovative
Information Technology (IT) solutions for a business  sector
remains a challenge, given the diverse needs and perspectives of
multiple stakeholders. This paper proposes a methodo logy for
the analysis of the business value of IT innovations  targeting a
specific sector, integrating consolidated governance frameworks
such as ISO 38500, COBIT (Control Objectives for Information
and Related Technologies), Bedell's method and IIRA
(Industrial Internet Reference Architecture). The me thodology
is structured in two main phases: Firstly, time pla nning
determines in which phases throughout the innovatio n lifecycle
the value analyses will be carried out. Secondly, c onducting
these business value analyses, following a structur ed approach.
The guideline addresses three key dimensions: (i) th e potential
interest and benefits that the innovation can bring to the sector,
(ii) the organizational and technical difficulties that may hinder
its implementation and (iii) the alignment of the s olution with
strategic objectives and sector needs. To validate the approach,
the methodology was applied in the DIMAT Project, ai med at
developing digital tools for small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs) in the materials supply chain. The results hig hlight the
importance of iteratively incorporating feedback fr om key
stakeholders during development to improve solution relevance,
mitigate adoption barriers, and ensure greater alig nment with
business expectations and industry demands.
Keywords—Business Value, Innovative IT, Business Sect or,
IT Government, Alignment
I.  INTRODUCTION
Competitive advantage in the digital era is often intricately
tied to an organization's ability to swiftly and ef fectively
embrace new technologies [1]. Businesses that excel  in
seamlessly integrating cutting-edge technology into  their
business models are poised to capture market share more
rapidly than their competitors [2], [3]. Digital tr ansformation
refers to the fundamental changes in how organizati ons or
businesses use digital technology to alter the way they operate,
interact with customers, and achieve their goals [4 ].
Successful organizations in digital transformation are often
more flexible in adopting changes and mastering new
technologies. Additionally, they can collaborate with business
partners or external parties to create more innovative solutions
[5].
The idea management process is essentially based on
generating new concepts by combining the organizati on's
knowledge and collective intelligence, aligned with  the
organization’s contextual factors (strategy, goals,  needs...).
However, the innovation management life cycle covers all the
innovation activities from insight to use. Thus, the innovation
management life cycle requires not only the impleme ntation
stage of this idea but also an exploitation stage, where the aim
is to generate value added [6].
Therefore, the identification of the added value of the idea
for its commercialization, in the form of a product, service, or
innovative process, is fundamental to completing th e
innovation cycle. In the case of innovative IT, it is necessary
to consider the impact of the project’s result on the product or
service added value [7].
IT companies that develop innovative IT solutions f or a
specific business sector must identify and strive to increase the
added value that their solution brings to that sector. To achieve
this, firms should improve their ability to absorb and utilize
users’ knowledge by promoting user participation [8]. Various
IT innovation frameworks highlight the role of the user from
the early stages [6], [9].


Fig. 1.  Main Stakeholders around a Sectorial Innovative IT Solution. Sector
companies and IT development companies of the solution.
Funded by the European Union’s Horizon Europe research and
innovation programme.

2025 IEEE International Conference on Engineering, Technology, and Innovation (ICE/ITMC) | 979-8-3315-8534-1/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICE/ITMC65658.2025.11106645
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 2
Fig. 2.  Business Value for Stakeholders about an Innovative  IT Solution.
Sector companies and IT development companies of the solution.
Identifying business value in innovation projects f ocused
on a specific sector is complex, as it may have dif ferent
“value” for the various participating organizations . This
complexity increases in collaborative innovation pr ojects,
where a group of organizations works together to cr eate a
solution useful for a given sector (Figure 1). Collaborative IT
innovations aimed at providing cutting-edge softwar e
solutions  to sectoral problems can be promoted by the public
sector (CEE Europe, National Projects, Chambers of
Commerce…) or the private sector (initiatives for
collaborative IT innovation among companies).
The client/user acceptability assessment of the IT
innovation during the planning and development phases, prior
to its full-scale deployment, is fundamental [9]. T his
evaluation ensures that user expectations, operatio nal
requirements, and potential adoption barriers are i dentified
early in the process. Mattei [10] highlights the design and pre-
production stages, where value analysis plays a key role.
Thus, companies developing an IT innovation in this
context must consistently monitor the business value of the IT
solution for their clients throughout the various s tages of the
innovation life cycle (Figure 2). This paper propos es a
methodology for identifying the business value of a n
innovative IT solution for a business sector in the early stages.
II.  IT
 BUSINESS VALUE
IT Governance involves the creation and protection of IT
business value [11]. IT business value research is aimed at
understanding how and to what extent the use of IT
contributes to organizational performance [12]. Bus iness/IT
alignment appears to be, as an intermediate variabl e, an
important catalyst of IT business value. However, it remains a
challenge to demonstrate the achievement of IT business value
[11].
Companies must manage the increasing technological
complexities accrued while they generate added valu e to
business processes through the strategic alignment between
business and Information Systems/Technologies[13].
According to the MIT90 model [14],  for an organiza tion to
fully capture IT value, IT should be aligned with b usiness
strategy, structure, management processes, as well as with
individuals and roles.
According to Sreenivasan and Suresh [15] agility,
adaptability and alignment are effective tactics fo r dealing
with difficulties like rising demand and supplier uncertainties,
shortened technology and product cycle, having seve ral
outsourced collaborators and harmonizing all their objectives
and demands. The continued alignment of business and IT in
a rapidly changing environment is a major challenge  for
today's businesses. The ability to react timeously to
continuous and unexpected change is called agility and is an
essential quality of the modern enterprise. Being a gile has
consequences for the engineering of enterprises and enterprise
information systems [16] (Figure 3).


Fig. 3.   Continuous Alignment Process adaptaded from [16]

Alignment in new organizational forms (networks of
companies) is more complex, since it must consider the degree
of alignment between the objectives and individual interests
of an organization with that of one or more other partners.
Alignment encapsulates the scope to which the firm
cooperates with its stakeholders to meet its perfor mance
targets [17]. Alignment aims to increase customer value [18].
Customer value is defined as a balance between the benefits a
customer obtains from a service or product and the effort, or
the challenges they confront in using or receiving the product
or service in question [19], [20].

Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 3
Value Drivers for adoption of new IT innovation inc lude
Competitive Position, Real Opportunities and Cost
saving/added revenues [21]. From a general perspective, Jerab
[22] differentiates internal and external business value drivers.
Internal business value drivers can vary depending on the
industry and specific business (e.g. revenue growth ,
operational efficiency or customer satisfaction). E xternal
business value drivers are beyond the control of th e
organization (e.g. industry trends, competitive lan dscape or
technological advancements).
Bedell’s method links business value to information
systems in a systematic and transparent approach. The method
is intended for decision support for new Informatio n System
(IS) investments. The most important principle of the method
is that the level of effectiveness of the informati on systems
should ideally be approximately equal to their leve l of
strategic importance. The method provides an IS
effectiveness/importance-portfolio for three organi zational
levels: (i) the entire organization, (ii) its set o f business
processes, and (iii) the individual activities with in each
process [23].
The optimisation of the value of investments in
Information Technology largely depends on IT govern ance,
which ensures alignment between business strategy a nd
technological initiatives. In this context, COBIT emerges as a
reference framework, as it provides processes, principles, and
control objectives that allow for effective supervi sion and
evaluation of IT performance [24]. Through COBIT,
organisations can define clear metrics (Key Perform ance
Indicators-KPIs), assign responsibilities, and syst ematically
manage risks, ensuring that IT projects generate me asurable
results and contribute to value creation at the corporate level.
Similarly, the ISO 38500 standard establishes the guiding
principles for corporate IT governance, focusing on
responsibility, strategy, acquisition, and the perf ormance of
technological resources [25]. This international st andard
promotes a global vision of governance by proposing
guidelines for ethical decision-making and the cont inuous
supervision of IT use within the organisation. Additionally, it
reinforces the need to involve senior management and relevant
stakeholders so that IT investments, whether in dig italisation
projects, cloud migrations, or the implementation o f new
systems, concretely contribute to achieving busines s
objectives and strengthening the company's competitiveness.
Regarding value creation within more specific indus trial
environments, as in the case of the Reference Archi tectural
Model Industrie 4.0 (RAMI 4.0) [26], a key element is the
integration of physical and digital assets throughout the entire
product or service lifecycle. This vision allows for identifying
different opportunities for the business, whether t o reduce
costs (optimisation of material use, reduction of d owntime,
etc.), improve quality, or personalise the offering . Thanks to
the data obtained from these assets, new business m odels
become possible. For the organisation to benefit fr om these
industry-associated data, adjustments in governance structure
and corporate culture are required. On one hand, there must be
a decision-making and monitoring body (for example,  a
digital transformation committee) that aligns all i nitiatives
with the corporate strategy. On the other hand, fos tering
interdisciplinary collaboration between production,  IT, and
finance areas is key, supported by training programmes aimed
at adopting digital tools.
Also, the business and organisational perspective
presented by IIRA (Industrial Internet Reference
Architecture) [27] is a key perspective to developi ng these
industrial systems. This methodology places the bus iness
viewpoint at the core around which all other elemen ts of the
architecture are built. This positions the user at the centre of
development. In this perspective, strategic objectives, success
KPIs, and the expectations of all stakeholders are clearly
defined, ensuring that Industrial Internet of Thing s (IIoT)
solutions truly provide tangible value. Likewise, r isk
assessment and data monetisation plans are addresse d from
the outset, allowing each industrial initiative to be prioritised
and designed with a clear focus on profitability an d the
creation of competitive advantages. At the organisa tional
level, IIRA proposes a classification of roles that ranges from
business owners to IT teams and external partners, fostering
collaboration and transparent assignment of respons ibilities.
The adoption of concrete Use Cases drives early validation of
the technical and economic feasibility of each proj ect,
facilitating decision-making based on metrics and evidence.
III.  CRITICAL ANALISYS
Based on the previous analysis regarding value generation
in IT innovation and its governance, a series of gaps have been
identified that require detailed examination.
The first gap identified lies in the difference in value
perception between a developer company and the sect or in
which it operates when identifying the value of IT innovation.
COBIT, Bedell or ISO 38500 includes the value persp ective
of the innovation for a company, however, they do n ot
consider a global perspective of a group of companies. While
a company evaluates the value of an IT solution in terms of its
own performance, efficiency, and competitive advantages, the
sector may consider broader aspects such as standardisation or
interoperability. It is also essential to highlight  the sector's
different needs, as these may be more oriented towards overall
evolution, whereas a company may be more focused on  the
application of a specific solution. This difference in approach
can create barriers to the adoption of innovations since a
company may regard an IT solution as highly valuable for its
business, but if there is no sector-wide adoption, its impact
may be limited.
Secondly, another issue arises in that the value of  IT
innovation projects varies depending on the nature of the
project. Evaluating or conducting a value analysis for an
already tested IT solution, such as an ERP (Enterpr ise
Resource Planning) or CRM (Customer Relationship
Management), is not the same as introducing a compl etely
new IT innovation for a specific sector. In the fir st case, the
value may lead to optimising a company's operations, but the
solution itself has already been tested and validat ed in the
market. However, when dealing with an innovative so lution,
the value is uncertain and depends on multiple factors such as
end-user acceptance, integration with existing syst ems, or
stability within the organisation's system. Here, the difference
between levels of innovation is fundamental for pro per
acceptance, as a company may be innovating with exi sting
technologies within its own context or introducing entirely
new technologies for its sector, requiring different validation
and adoption strategies.
Finally, reference frameworks such as COBIT, ISO
38500, IIRA, or RAMI 4.0 do not provide a clear
methodology that specifically guides the interaction between
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 4
IT solution developers and the sector in which these solutions
are implemented. For example, both RAMI 4.0 and IIR A
barely mention the concept of IT governance for sec toral
innovation, despite being frameworks that offer a s tructured
vision for implementing new technologies. However, it is
worth noting that IIRA places the user and business objectives
at the centre of IIoT (Industrial Internet of Thing s) solution
design, providing an approach based on use cases and defined
roles. In contrast, though, there has been little e xploration of
how this architecture can be applied in analysing the value of
IT innovation in specific sectors.
In this sense, it is necessary to develop a methodology that
structures the identification and analysis of IT in novation
value in specific sectors, considering both busines s and
sectoral perspectives while focusing on the differe nces
between various types of IT innovation. The develop ment of
this methodology will reduce uncertainty in IT inno vation
adoption, facilitate its alignment with sectoral ne eds, and
improve efficiency in value creation for companies
participating in collaborative innovation projects.
IV.  BUSINESS VALUE ANALYSIS PROPOSAL
The development of innovative IT applications aimed at a
business sector requires adequate identification of  the value
that their implementation has for the business. In this process,
it is necessary to consider the value/interest/bene fits for the
business of the new functionalities provided by the
applications, as well as the difficulties of their
implementation. The process of adjusting innovative  IT
proposals presents a higher level of complexity when is aimed
at a business sector where many companies participa te. That
is why the role of IT government in these contexts is
fundamental for the development of innovative solutions that
truly respond to the majority interest of the compa nies
involved.
Therefore, this proposal attempts to answer the following
questions: (i) Is the solution of interest to the business? (ii) Are
there difficulties in implementing the solution in the business?
(iii) How to align the solution to the needs of the sector?
In accordance with the ISO 38500 standard, monitori ng
phases (Evaluate and Monitor) examine the relevance  of the
solution for the company and anticipate the difficu lties of its
implementation, providing answers to the first two questions.
The direction phase guides the definition of strategies and the
adaptation of the solution to the specific needs of  the sector,
answering the third question and promoting alignmen t with
business objectives. Thus, the analysis proposal is  structured
in 3 steps:
1. Analysis of interest/benefits for the business
2. Analysis of the difficulties for its implementation
3. Alignment analysis
1)  Analysis of Interest/Benefits for the business:
For this analysis, it is necessary to identify the potential
benefits of using the innovative IT solution brings  to the
business sector in which it will be implemented. This involves
contextualising these benefits within the business
environment, precisely identifying the business processes that
will be improved, and determining the specific value that this
solution adds to the organizations involved.
Since the impact of a sector-wide solution may vary
depending on the characteristics of each organizati on within
the sector, the perceived benefits may also differ.  Some
companies may find significant value in optimizing
operational processes, while others may prioritize improving
decision-making or enhancing adaptability to new
technological environments.
To carry out this analysis, it is proposed to adapt  the
Bedell's Method to identify the interest of the IT solution for
the sector. Thus, the following aspects has been pr oposed to
be analysed.
IMPORTANCE: How important for your business are the
processes that are impacted by the innovative IT solution?
This dimension analyses the degree of relevance of the
business processes impacted by the IT solution with in the
strategy and operations of companies in the sector.  A highly
important process is one whose improvement or
transformation can significantly impact the competi tiveness
and sustainability of the business.
EFFICIENCY: How much can the processes be improved
by implementing the innovative IT solution?
This evaluates the extent to which the implementati on of
the innovative IT solution can improve existing pro cesses.
This includes reducing operational costs, increasin g
productivity, improving data accuracy, or optimizin g the
execution time of key tasks.
Also, the aggregation levels in the Bedell Method h ave
been adapted for this proposal. Traditionally, the Bedell model
structures the relationship between an organization  and its
processes in the following hierarchy:
Organization (1) → Business Processes (N) → Activities (N)
Each organization has multiple business processes, and
each of these processes consists of various specific activities.
In the guideline presented in this paper, the analy sis
structure is modified to address the IT solution from a sectoral
perspective:
Sector (1) → Subsectors (N) → Business process involved with the
innovative IT solution (N)
Within a given sector, multiple subsectors may be affected
at different levels by the proposed IT solution. Ea ch of these
subsectors, in turn, presents specific business pro cesses that
directly interact with the new technology.
This structure makes it possible to determine the
importance and efficiency of the solution for the d ifferent
subsectors and for the sector as a whole.
2)  Implementation difficulties
The implementation of an innovative IT solution in an
organisation involves a series of challenges that m ust be
assessed to understand the effort required for its adoption. In
this article, it is proposed to examine the difficu lties of its
implementation from two perspectives: (i) The busin ess
perspective, focused on the vision of business deci sion-
makers, and (ii) the technical perspective, focused  on the
vision of technology leaders. This difference is ba sed on an
adaptation derived from the IIRA architecture frame work,
specifically from the business viewpoint section, w hich
distinguishes technological factors from business f actors.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 5
Based on this approach, the main difficulties that may arise
during the implementation of the solution are identified.
ORGANIZATIONAL DIFFICULTIES: What
organizational difficulties could your company have  when
implementing the innovative IT Solution?

Organizational difficulties refer to internal obsta cles that
may hinder the deployment of the solution within th e
company. One of the main challenges is change management
since the introduction of new technologies can gene rate
resistance among employees and executives. The lack  of
familiarity with the solution, fear of disruption to established
processes, and uncertainty about its impact can slow down its
adoption. To mitigate this risk, it is essential to  establish a
clear communication and change management strategy that
ensures the acceptance and commitment of all involv ed
parties.
Another important challenge is staff capability, as
depending on the complexity of the solution, the company will
need to invest in training to ensure that employees can use the
new technology efficiently. Likewise, the implement ation of
the solution could involve changes in the organizat ional
structure, reassignment of responsibilities, or red efinition of
key processes, which requires a detailed analysis to minimize
negative impacts. Moreover, it is crucial that the solution is
aligned with the company's strategic objectives. If  its
implementation does not fit the business vision and  needs, it
could create more obstacles than benefits.
Finally, the decision-making process and acceptance  at
different levels of the organization can pose a sig nificant
challenge. This is due to the lack of consensus among different
departments or uncertainty about the return on inve stment,
which can delay implementation and affect the viability of the
project.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES: What technical
difficulties could your company have when implementing the
innovative IT Solution?

Technical difficulties, on the other hand, are related to the
integration of the solution within the company’s technological
ecosystem. It is possible that some organizations o perating
with legacy infrastructures may not be compatible w ith the
new solution, requiring additional efforts in terms of interface
development, API integration, or system updates. Considering
this, data migration can be a complex process, espe cially if
there are large volumes of information that need to be adapted
to the new system without compromising their integr ity and
security.
Technological infrastructure also plays an importan t role
in implementation, as some solutions require invest ments in
new servers, devices, or networks to ensure their p roper
functioning. Security is another fundamental aspect  since
incorporating new technology may increase the attack surface
and expose the company to new risks. Nonetheless, solutions
must comply with applicable security and privacy regulations,
such as GDPR, and include strong protection measure s to
prevent unauthorized access or data loss. Additiona lly, the
performance and scalability of the solution must be considered
from the outset to avoid future issues. A solution that cannot
handle the company’s operational load or is not sca lable can
generate additional costs and impact business continuity.
Finally, the need for customization and specific
adjustments for the company can prolong implementat ion
times and increase the required investment, which m ust be
considered in project planning. The identification and
mitigation of these difficulties are necessary to e nsure a
successful implementation. The combination of an
organizational strategy and a solid technical appro ach will
help reduce risks and maximize the value of the sol ution for
the company.
3)  Alignment analysis
In this section we analyse the alignment that arise s
between the innovative IT solution, the strategic b usiness
objectives and the technological infrastructure that supports it,
to correctly apply the principles of ISO 38500 and EGM
COBIT. From this point of view, we will obtain addi tional
information that allows us to better understand the
functionalities of the solution that can generate v alue and at
the same time, avoid imbalances in its development.
To do this, it is proposed to follow one of the Business and
IT alignment perspectives proposed by Henderson and
Venkatraman [13]. Specifically, this perspective is addressing
the competitive potential and is concerned with the harnessing
of emerging IT capabilities to impact new products and
services (i.e. business scope). The specific role o f the top
management to make this perspective succeed is that  of the
business visionary, who articulates how the emergin g IT
competences and functionality would impact the busi ness
strategy.
Under this approach, the analysis is oriented to identifying
possible improvements that boost its impact on the business
strategies.
ADDED VALUE PROPOSALS: What improvement or
changes would you introduce to the innovative IT solution that
could provide greater value for your organization?
This question allows to gather concrete ideas on ho w to
optimize the solution to effectively respond to the needs of the
different interest groups, thus providing an environment for a
constructive discussion to unite both the technological and the
business vision. In this way, the alignment analysis considers
the compatibility between processes and systems, ad ding the
vision of those who use or will use the innovative solution.
Ultimately, the final objective is to be able to gu arantee that
the solution (apart from being technologically soun d)
contributes to the requirements defined by the orga nizations,
so that they create real and sustainable value in the sector.
V.  METHODOLOGY FOR BUSINESS VALUE ANALYSIS OF
INNOVATIVE IT  IN A BUSINESS SECTOR
The proposed methodology is structured in two main
phases. The first phase focuses on planning the business value
analysis by determining the key moments in the inno vation
process where the assessment will take place. Ident ifying
these moments ensures that the evaluation is aligne d with
critical decision points. For example, if the analy sis is
conducted in the early stages of the innovation, it helps ensure
that technological innovations remain closely connected to the
real needs of the sector, preventing misalignment b etween
solutions and their intended users. On the other ha nd, if the
analysis takes place in later stages such as protot yping, it
serves to validate the actual business impact of the innovation
and identify potential adjustments needed.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 6
The second phase consists of conducting the busines s
value analysis itself, following a structured appro ach. This
includes: (i) Identifying the relevant stakeholders  within the
innovation ecosystem, (ii) Defining the key value a spects to
be analyzed, (iii) Preparing and executing the proc ess to
collect stakeholders' perceptions and expectations,  (iv)
Analyzing the collected data, and providing recommendations
to developers to help them refine their solutions and maximize
their business value.
A.  Business Value Analysis Plannnig
The innovation life cycle goes through several stag es,
from the generation of the initial idea to its final exploitation.
During this journey, it is essential to identify and enhance the
added value that the solution provides at each mome nt.
Therefore, it is essential to establish a time plan that defines in
which phases the value analysis will be carried out. This plan
should take into account risk factors, such as dela ys in the
schedule, or—more critically—the identification tha t the
proposed solution provides insufficient business va lue to the
stakeholders. In all cases, appropriate contingency  measures
should be defined from the outset.
Fig. 4.   Business Value Analysis Planning
Figure 4 illustrates key stages in the innovation p rocess,
from idea generation to exploitation, and indicates  the
decision point for determining when Business Value Analysis
should be performed. This planning ensures that assessments
are timed according to the maturity of the innovation, enabling
alignment with stakeholder expectations, product ev olution,
and market dynamics.
In this way, each business value analysis is tailored to the
specific characteristics of the innovation at the corresponding
stage, considering both the evolution of the product or service
and the participation of different key actors. This progressive
approach allows for a more precise and realistic vi ew of the
impact that the innovation can generate in the busi ness
environment, facilitating decision-making and optimising the
alignment of the solution with the real needs of th e sector.
Thus, once the plan has been established (first pha se), each
analysis must be conducted with the following steps  (second
phase):
B.  Identification of relevant stakeholders within the
innovation ecosystem
The proposed methodology considers three main sets of
stakeholders, each playing a distinct role in the i nnovation
ecosystem:
1.  Users – Organizations or companies within the business
sector that are potential adopters of the solution.  Their
feedback is essential in assessing the innovation’s
relevance, usability, and alignment with industry needs.
2.  Developers – IT organizations or companies responsible
for the technical development and implementation of the
solution. Their involvement ensures that business v alue
considerations are integrated into the innovation
development.
3.  IT Government Managers  – Organizations or companies
overseeing the design, conceptualization, and alignment
of the solution. This group may involve research centers,
regulatory bodies, developers, users and experts in
software architecture or business strategy, among others.
Their role is important in establishing the foundat ion
upon which developers will build the final solution.
As previously mentioned, the composition of stakeholders
may be different in the different stages of the inn ovation
process. Therefore, it is essential to review and u pdate the
stakeholder set each time a business value analysis  is
conducted. In addition, in IT-driven innovations focused on a
specific business sector, the group of potential us ers can be
highly diverse, including various types of companie s with
different needs, priorities and expectations regard ing the
innovation.
Therefore, it is necessary to carefully select the
participants that will be involved in the data coll ection
process, ensuring that the analysis captures a repr esentative
sample of the sector and provides meaningful insights.
C.  Preparation for the data capture and definition of value
aspects to be analyzed
The business value analysis proposed previously in section
IV must be adapted to the specific stage of the inn ovation
process. As the IT solution evolves, and different stakeholders
become involved, the aspects to be analyzed and the  data
collection methods may need to be adjusted.
 The key value aspects to be analyzed should be rel ated to
three main areas: 1) the potential interest and ben efits of the
innovation for the business sector, 2) the challeng es and
difficulties associated with its implementation, an d 3) the
alignment of the innovation with industry needs and
expectations. To effectively conduct these analyses, three key
elements must be considered:
1.  Providing clear and structured information about th e
product or idea at its current stage to the selecte d
stakeholders.
2.  Defining the most appropriate data collection metho ds,
such as interviews, surveys, or structured question naires,
depending on the context.
3.  Adapting the questions and format of data collection to the
target audience to ensure relevant and useful information.
 By adjusting the analysis approach based on the ma turity
of the innovation and the composition of stakeholders at each
stage, the business value assessment remains precis e,
practical, and aligned with real sector conditions.  Therefore,
the three key elements indicated must be formulated  at this
stage to be implemented in the following step.
D.  Implementation of the process to collect stakeholders’
perceptions and expectations
This step is divided into two main phases:
1.  Preparation for data collection: Before collect ing input
from stakeholders, it is essential to prepare and s tructure
both the materials and the mechanism for data colle ction.
This preparation involves:
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 7
• Developing relevant information about the
innovation. Stakeholders must have a clear
understanding of the idea or project being developed
to provide informed responses. The format for
delivering this information can vary, including
written documents, online materials, personalized
meetings, or informative videos.
• Preparing the data collection system. If using
surveys, this includes preparing the questionnaire,
defining question types, and ensuring clarity and
relevance. If using interviews or focus groups, thi s
involves structuring the questions and defining the
interview format.
• Coordinating stakeholder participation. To ensure
participation, it is necessary to coordinate how
stakeholders will be invited and how they will access
the data collection process. This can include sending
invitations, setting up appointments for interviews ,
or distributing survey links.
2.  Execution of data collection: Once the preparation is
complete, the data collection process must be manag ed
efficiently:
• Providing stakeholders with access to the data
collection system. Clear instructions must be given
to facilitate participation independently of the
method employed (e.g. questionnaire on a sheet of
paper or on a web page).
• Defining deadlines for responses. Establishing a
response period ensures timely feedback and allows
for proper data analysis planning.
• Encouraging stakeholder participation. This can
involve follow-up communications, reminders, or
incentives to encourage responses from key
participants.
E.  Data Analysis and Recommendations
The data analysis step focuses on processing and
interpreting the collected data. Since the business value of an
IT innovation can vary depending on the different
stakeholders involved, it is crucial to examine the  data from
multiple perspectives, considering the needs, expec tations,
and challenges identified by each group.
By systematically analyzing survey responses, inter view
feedback, or other data sources, it is possible to identify
common trends, key concerns, and opportunities for
improvement. This process helps to understand stake holder
perceptions, highlighting both strengths and necess ary
adjustments to the innovation.
Once the data has been analyzed, the next step is t o
generate recommendations to improve the design and
development of the innovation. These recommendation s
should aim to address critical issues or limitation s identified
during the analysis, improve functionalities to better meet user
needs, or adapt specific features to improve usabil ity,
feasibility, or business impact. By refining the solution based
on stakeholders' feedback, developers can ensure th at the
innovation remains relevant and aligned with sector  and
industry requirements, and delivers tangible business value.
VI.  THE CASE OF THE MATERIAL SUPPLY CHAIN
The proposed methodology has been implemented in th e
DIMAT Project (Digital Modelling and Simulation for
Design, Processing and Manufacturing of Advanced
Materials) [28], an initiative funded by the Europe an Union
under the Horizon Europe program. The main objectiv e of
DIMAT is to develop open digital tools that enable small and
medium-sized enterprises of the material supply cha in in
Europe to model, simulate, and optimize materials a t every
stage of their value chain: design, processing, and
manufacturing. These tools aim to improve the quali ty,
sustainability, efficiency, and competitiveness of materials
produced in Europe, driving technological innovatio n across
the entire supply chain.
The project is structured into three integrated suites (Data
and Assessment Suite, Modelling and Design Suite, a nd
Simulation and Optimization Suite), each composed o f three
toolkits. Data and assessment suite: i) Cloud mater ial
database, ii) Knowledge acquisition framework and i ii)
Material environmental and cost life cycle assessme nt
toolkits. Modelling and design suite: i) Materials design
framework, ii) Materials modeler, and iii) Material  designer
toolkits. And simulation and optimisation suite: i)  Materials
mechanical properties simulator, ii) Materials Proc essing
simulator and iii) Digital twin for process control  toolkits.
These toolkits offer targeted digital functionaliti es across
different stages of the advanced materials value ch ain,
supporting technical decision-making in sectors suc h as
textiles, composites, glass, and graphite processing.
The effectiveness of these suites will be demonstra ted
through their application in different types of materials supply
chains: textiles, composites, glass, and graphite. Additionally,
multiple academic and non-academic partners partici pate in
the conceptualization, design, and development of t he tools
that compose each suite.
As part of the Business Value Analysis Planning,  two
assessments were scheduled at different stages of t he
innovation process.
The first analysis took place in the early stages o f the
project, when the toolkits were still being conceptualized. At
this point, the objective was to align the vision o f developers
and IT governance managers with business needs, suc h as
reducing production downtime, improving traceabilit y,
minimizing raw material waste, and increasing responsiveness
to customer-specific material properties—challenges
commonly faced by SMEs in the advanced materials sector.
The second analysis was conducted once the first
prototype of the digital tools was developed. This evaluation
focused on validating the business impact of the pr oposed
solutions and identifying potential improvements.
The identification of stakeholders  for the Business Value
Analysis was based on the roles defined within the consortium
and the need to engage relevant industry participan ts. These
roles included Users (technical experts in material  science
from companies within the sector ), Developers (sof tware
development companies) and IT Government Managers (
R&D managers, process engineers, IT integration sta ff, and
innovation officers from four research centers, two
development companies of the innovative solution an d four
pilot companies in the material sector). Their role is important
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 8
in establishing the foundation upon which developer s will
build the final solution.
However, identifying potential users within the mat erials
supply chain was more complex due to the wide range  of
possible stakeholders. The first analysis focused on gathering
feedback from the four pilot companies collaboratin g on the
project. These companies provided initial input on the
conceptualized solutions, including technical needs  (e.g.,
process data integration, simulation accuracy), con ceptual
expectations (e.g., modular design, scalability), a nd
informatics-related concerns (e.g., compatibility with existing
IT infrastructure and data security). This helped r efine the
design of the solution and increase the relevance t o real
business needs.
In the second analysis, the evaluation was extended  to a
larger number of companies from the sector. This he lped
validate the business impact of the developed prototypes and
provided a more detailed assessment of their applic ability,
feasibility, and potential adoption by the sector.
The definition of value aspects to be analyzed  was
adapted to the specific objectives of each analysis. In the first
business value analysis the focus was on evaluating  the
innovation concept from the perspective of potentia l users.
The analysis considered aspects such as the relevan ce and
potential benefits of the proposed toolkits for companies in the
materials sector, their alignment with industry needs, and the
feasibility and perceived difficulties in adopting the proposed
digital solutions.
In the second Business Value Analysis, the evaluati on
focused on validating the business value of the dev eloped
toolkits, assessing practical challenges related to
implementation such as organizational and technical barriers,
and identifying expected improvements in terms of
operational efficiency (e.g., perceived reduction i n process
time and scrap rates), profitability (e.g., expecte d margin
improvements), and competitiveness (e.g., capacity to respond
faster to customer demands or customize products). These
were measured using self-reported estimations and confidence
levels rated by company representatives.
The implementation of the process to collect
stakeholders’ perceptions  was adapted for the two Business
Value Analyses, considering the specific objectives  of each
evaluation: in the first, to validate the conceptua l fit of the
toolkits with sectoral needs and refine their scope ; in the
second, to assess the readiness, perceived value, and adoption
potential of the working prototypes.
In the first Business Value Analysis, a physical se minar
was organized where the innovation concept (defined  as the
use of modular, open-access digital toolkits tailor ed to
simulate, model, and optimize material properties a nd
manufacturing processes in SMEs) was presented to
representatives of the pilot companies. Following the seminar,
a web-based questionnaire was made available for a week,
allowing participants to provide structured feedbac k on the
proposed solutions. The questionnaires were structu red
according with the proposal (analysis of interest/b enefits for
the business; analysis of the difficulties for its implementation
and alignment analysis)
For the second Business Value Analysis, a webinar w as
held to present the toolkits, followed by additiona l
dissemination through a recorded YouTube session and email
campaigns targeting relevant companies in the secto r. To
facilitate participation, a web-based survey remained open for
30 days, allowing stakeholders to provide input
asynchronously. This survey received 34 responses collected
from different companies of the material sector.
The data analysis  derived from the two Business Value
Analysis provided valuable insights into the percei ved
benefits, challenges, and adoption potential of the  digital
toolkits developed in DIMAT. Quantitative data were
analyzed using descriptive statistics (mean, standa rd
deviation) to rank toolkits across benefit categori es.
Qualitative data were coded thematically using indu ctive
content analysis to identify patterns in concerns, expectations,
and strategic alignment.
In the first Business Value Analysis, the results o btained
from the questionnaire confirmed that companies in the
materials sector recognised the potential benefits of digital
toolkits in improving operational efficiency and
competitiveness. However, concerns were raised rega rding
feasibility and integration into existing workflows ,
particularly in relation to technical complexity an d
organizational adaptation. These findings helped re fine the
innovation, aligning its design with practical indu stry
requirements. The main results helped identify the toolkits
with the greatest potential for use in companies wi thin the
sector. Moreover, this made it possible to assess the challenges
that may arise during the implementation of the sol utions in
companies within the sector.
The second Business Value Analysis results indicated that
the Simulation and Optimization  Suite demonstrated the
strongest alignment between expected improvements a nd
business importance, particularly in areas such as operational
efficiency, profitability, and risk management. How ever,
some companies highlighted concerns about implement ation
challenges, including insufficient budget, lack of training, and
resistance to change, which could affect adoption r ates. In
response, the project consortium proposed additiona l
dissemination and training activities, recommended phased
deployment strategies, and planned the development of user
manuals and helpdesk support mechanisms.
Based on these insights, specific recommendations  were
made to enhance the toolkits and improve their business value
The analysis and recommendations were documented in  two
project deliverables, which have served as a guide for
developers and IT governance managers in the follow ing
stages of the innovation process.
VII.  CONCLUSIONS
The proposed methodology for business value analysis of
innovative IT solutions for a business sector provi des a
structured approach to assess their impact, feasibi lity, and
alignment with industry needs throughout the innova tion
lifecycle. By addressing the three key dimensions, business
interest and benefits, implementation difficulties,  and
alignment with sectoral needs, the Business Value A nalysis
proposed ensures a comprehensive evaluation of the solution's
value.
A key aspect of this proposal is the importance of
integrating multiple perspectives when evaluating I T
innovation (interest/benefits for the business, dif ficulties for
its implementation, and alignment with the business ) from a
sectoral point of view.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 9
Furthermore, the methodology and the business value
analysis proposed take into consideration IT Govern ance
frameworks and standards such as ISO 38500, COBIT,
Bedell’s method or IIRA.
The application of this approach in the DIMAT proje ct
demonstrated its effectiveness, by enabling iterati ve
refinement of the toolkits, informed by real-time s takeholder
feedback, and leading to measurable increases in stakeholder
interest, tool alignment with needs, and readiness for pilot
deployment.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This paper was funded by the European Union’s Horizon
Europe research and innovation programme under gran t
agreement No. 101091496, project DiMAT (Digital
Modelling and Simulation for Design, Processing and
Manufacturing of Advanced Materials).
REFERENCES
[1] S. Faraj and P. M. Leonardi, “Strategic organiz ation in the
digital age: Rethinking the concept of technology,” Strateg
Organ , vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 771–785, Nov. 2022, doi:
10.1177/14761270221130253.
[2] N.-A. Perifanis and F. Kitsios, “Investigating the Influence
of Artificial Intelligence on Business Value in the  Digital
Era of Strategy: A Literature Review,” Information , vol.
14, no. 2, p. 85, Feb. 2023, doi: 10.3390/info14020085.
[3] S. Suherlan, “Digital Technology Transformation  in
Enhancing Public Participation in Democratic Proces ses,”
Technology and Society Perspectives (TACIT) , vol. 1, no.
1, pp. 10–17, Aug. 2023, doi: 10.61100/tacit.v1i1.34.
[4] S. Kraus, S. Durst, J. J. Ferreira, P. Veiga, N . Kailer, and
A. Weinmann, “Digital transformation in business an d
management research: An overview of the current sta tus
quo,” Int J Inf Manage , vol. 63, p. 102466, Apr. 2022, doi:
10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2021.102466.
[5] K. Agustian, E. S. Mubarok, A. Zen, W. Wiwin, a nd A. J.
Malik, “The Impact of Digital Transformation on Business
Models and Competitive Advantage,” Technology and
Society Perspectives (TACIT) , vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 79–93, Oct.
2023, doi: 10.61100/tacit.v1i2.55.
[6] L. Bassiti, “Toward an Innovation Management
Framework: A Life-Cycle Model with an Idea
Management Focus,” International Journal of Innovation,
Management and Technology , vol. 4, no. 6, 2013, doi:
10.7763/ijimt.2013.v4.460.
[7] V. I. Grekul, E. A. Isaev, N. L. Korovkina, and  T. S.
Lisienkova, “Developing an approach to ranking
innovative IT projects,” Business Informatics , vol. 13, no.
2, pp. 43–58, 2019, doi: 10.17323/1998-
0663.2019.2.43.58.
[8] F. Zhao, T. Meng, W. Wang, F. Alam, and B. Zhan g,
“Digital Transformation and Firm Performance: Benef it
from Letting Users Participate,” Journal of Global
Information Management , vol. 31, no. 1, pp. 1–23, 2023,
doi: 10.4018/JGIM.322104.
[9] P. V Kukhareva et al. , “Evaluation in Life Cycle of
Information Technology ( ELICIT ) framework :
Supporting the innovation life cycle from business case
assessment to summative evaluation,” J Biomed Inform ,
vol. 127, no. February, p. 104014, 2022, doi:
10.1016/j.jbi.2022.104014.
[10] G. Mattei, L. Canetta, M. Sorlini, S. Alberton , and F. Tito,
“Innovation Maturity Model for New Product and Services
Development: A proposal,” Proceedings - 2019 IEEE
International Conference on Engineering, Technology and
Innovation, ICE/ITMC 2019 , 2019, doi:
10.1109/ICE.2019.8792581.
[11] S. De Haes, W. Van Grembergen, A. Joshi, and T . Huygh,
“Enterprise Governance of IT, Alignment, and Value, ”
Management for Professionals , vol. Part F574, pp. 1–13,
2020, doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-25918-1_1.
[12] N. Melville, K. Kraemer, and V. Gurbaxani, “In formation
technology and organizational performance: An integrative
model of IT business value,” MIS quarterly , vol. 28, no. 2,
pp. 283–322, 2004.
[13] J. C. Henderson and H. Venkatraman, “Strategic
alignment: Leveraging information technology for
transforming organizations,” IBM Systems Journal , vol. 38,
no. 2.3, pp. 472–484, 1999, doi: 10.1147/SJ.1999.5387096.
[14] M. S. S. Morton, The corporation of the 1990s: Information
technology and organizational transformation , vol. 9.
Oxford University Press, 1991.
[15] A. Sreenivasan and M. Suresh, “Agility adaptab ility and
alignment in start-ups,” Journal of Science and Technology
Policy Management , vol. 15, no. 5, pp. 963–996, Aug.
2024, doi: 10.1108/JSTPM-05-2022-0083.
[16] K. Hinkelmann, A. Gerber, D. Karagiannis, B. T hoenssen,
A. van der Merwe, and R. Woitsch, “A new paradigm f or
the continuous alignment of business and IT: Combin ing
enterprise architecture modelling and enterprise ontology,”
Comput Ind , vol. 79, pp. 77–86, Jun. 2016, doi:
10.1016/j.compind.2015.07.009.
[17] J. Feizabadi, D. M. Gligor, and S. Alibakhshi,  “Examining
the synergistic effect of supply chain agility, ada ptability
and alignment: a complementarity perspective,” Supply
Chain Management: An International Journal , vol. 26, no.
4, pp. 514–531, May 2021, doi: 10.1108/SCM-08-2020-
0424.
[18] V. G. Narayanan and A. Raman, “Aligning incent ives in
supply chains,” Harv Bus Rev , vol. 82, no. 11, pp. 149,
94—102, Nov. 2004, [Online]. Available:
http://europepmc.org/abstract/MED/15559449
[19] N. R. Sanders, “Pattern of information technol ogy use: The
impact on buyer–suppler coordination and performanc e,”
Journal of Operations Management , vol. 26, no. 3, pp.
349–367, May 2008, doi: 10.1016/j.jom.2007.07.003.
[20] J. Feizabadi, M. Maloni, and D. Gligor, “Bench marking the
triple-A supply chain: orchestrating agility, adapt ability,
and alignment,” Benchmarking: An International Journal ,
vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 271–295, Feb. 2019, doi: 10.110 8/BIJ-
03-2018-0059.
[21] A. J. Gilbert Silvius, “The business value of IT seeing the
forest through the trees,” Proceedings of the European and
Mediterranean Conference on Information Systems,
EMCIS 2008 , vol. 2008, pp. 1–16, 2008.
[22] D. A. Jerab, “Value, Value Drivers & Valuation : Basics
and Principles,” SSRN Electronic Journal , 2023, doi:
10.2139/ssrn.4539493.
[23] P. M. Schuurman, E. W. Berghout, and P. Powell ,
“Calculating the Importance of Information Systems:  The
Method of Bedell Revisited,” University of Groningen,
Netherlands. Sprouts: Working Papers on Information
Systems , vol. 8, no. 37, 2008.
[24] E. W. N. Bernroider and M. Ivanov, “IT project
management control and the Control Objectives for IT and
related Technology (CobiT) framework,” International
Journal of Project Management , vol. 29, no. 3, pp. 325–
336, Apr. 2011, doi: 10.1016/j.ijproman.2010.03.002.
[25] A. Chaudhuri, “Enabling Effective IT Governanc e:
Leveraging ISO/IEC 38500:2008 and COBIT to Achieve
Business–IT Alignment,” EDPACS , vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 1–
18, Aug. 2011, doi: 10.1080/07366981.2011.599278.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.

### Page 10
[26] P. Adolphs and E. Ulrich, “Reference Architect ure Model
Industrie 4.0 (RAMI4.0),” 2015. [Online]. Available :
www.vdi.de
[27] S.-W. Lin et al. , “The Industrial Internet of Things Volume
G1 : Reference Architecture,” Industrial Internet
Consortium White Paper , vol. Version 1., p. 58 Seiten,
2017.
[28] DiMAT, “Digital Modelling and Simulation for D esign,
Processing and Manufacturing of Advanced Materials, ”
https://dimat-project.eu/.




Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSIDAD POLITECNICA DE VALENCIA. Downloaded on September 30,2025 at 14:33:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
